README.md, before:

# INCO

This class is about exploring complexity and innovation through the lens of advanced interactive data visualization. Understanding how to co-evolve complex ecosystems and how to allow for distributed organizing to happen demands a thorough understanding of data visualization techniques. The course builds on basic knowledge in calculus and software development. It builds the basics for developing smart interactive web-based healthcare data displays.

## Reading

- Lecture: [Visualization Analysis & Design](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=1664615)
- Practice: [Data Visualization with Python and JavaScript](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/detail.action?docID=30285893)

## Recommended Reading:  
- D3.js: [D3.js in Action](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=6642501&query=d3.js&ppg=1), [Interactive Data Visualization for the Web](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/interactive-data-visualization/9781491921296/)
- Python: [Practical Data Science with Python](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=6739165), [Python Data Analysis](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=6462897)


## Course Materials

The course closely follows the main reading, which offers vast additional material online:

- General Resource for the book: https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/vadbook/
- Undergraduate Course at UBC: https://www.students.cs.ubc.ca/~cs-436v/22Jan/)
- Video Sessions on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1GhZisgc6DI&list=PLT4XLHmqHJBdB24LAQPk_PV7wrwpJFh5a

### Python and D3.js

- https://www.bogotobogo.com/python/IPython/iPython_Jupyter_Notebook_with_Embedded_D3.php, https://github.com/PyGoogle/PyD3
- https://mpld3.github.io/


## Deliverables

- As part of the course you need to prepare an individual data visualization project based on publicly available healthcare dataset.

## Sessions

- Lecture: 30min
- Hands-on: 90-150min
- Project Presentation/Feedback (in 4 Sessions): 60min

### Session 1 - Why Data Visualization and How?

#### Hands-on
- Introductory Example using Python Matplotlib
- Review on Progress Board and Discussion

#### Project
- Project Ideation


### Session 2 - What: Data Abstraction

#### Hands-on

- Data Types in Visualization and their implementation in Python


### Session 3 - Why: Task Abstraction

#### Lecture

- Theory and Research Findings on Visualization
- Data Visualization in Healthcare
- What: Data Abstraction

- Slides (pp. 16-30): https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/talks/vad/VAD-2021.pdf

- Video 1: https://youtu.be/KXswx4QSkHc
- Video 2: https://youtu.be/Yq2IkdgWr9Q

#### Hands-on

- Project Setup with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (D3.js)
- Can we get to this?! https://ourworldindata.org/health-meta#health-returns-to-healthcare-investment
- Joint ideation on visualization and technologies used


### Session 4 - Analysis: Four levels of validation

- Understanding the need and a framework for validation
- Application to own project
- Preliminary planning of iterations, definition of roadmap

#### Hands-on
- Producing interactivity in prototyping: https://kapernikov.com/ipywidgets-with-matplotlib/
- Setting up your Web App and transferring your data


### Session 5 - TEAM PRESENTATIONS


### Session 6 - Data and Task Abstraction

#### Lecture

Slides: https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/talks/vad/VAD-2021.pdf (pp. 39-121)

#### Project Tipps:

- Get clarity about Domain, Users, and their Problems
- Specify and Prioritize User Problems
- Build simple "social" prototypes to facilitate communication and avoid spending useless time implementing "something": https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/design-thinking-get-started-with-prototyping


### Session 7 - Marks and Channels

### Lecture

Slides:  https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/talks/vad/VAD-2021.pdf (pp. 122-177)

Commit message:

cleanup before session 2, updated example to pandas 2

README.md, after:

# INCO

This class is about exploring complexity and innovation through the lens of advanced interactive data visualization. Understanding how to co-evolve complex ecosystems and how to allow for distributed organizing to happen demands a thorough understanding of data visualization techniques. The course builds on basic knowledge in calculus and software development. It builds the basics for developing smart interactive web-based healthcare data displays.

## Reading

- Lecture: [Visualization Analysis & Design](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=1664615)
- Practice: [Data Visualization with Python and JavaScript](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/detail.action?docID=30285893)

## Recommended Reading:
- D3.js: [D3.js in Action](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=6642501&query=d3.js&ppg=1), [Interactive Data Visualization for the Web](https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/interactive-data-visualization/9781491921296/)
- Python: [Practical Data Science with Python](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=6739165), [Python Data Analysis](https://ebookcentral.proquest.com/lib/th-deggendorf/reader.action?docID=6462897)


## Course Materials

The course closely follows the main reading, which offers vast additional material online:

- General Resource for the book: https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/vadbook/
- Undergraduate Course at UBC: https://www.students.cs.ubc.ca/~cs-436v/22Jan/)
- Video Sessions on YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1GhZisgc6DI&list=PLT4XLHmqHJBdB24LAQPk_PV7wrwpJFh5a

### Python and D3.js

- https://www.bogotobogo.com/python/IPython/iPython_Jupyter_Notebook_with_Embedded_D3.php, https://github.com/PyGoogle/PyD3
- https://mpld3.github.io/


## Deliverables

- As part of the course you need to prepare an individual data visualization project based on publicly available healthcare dataset.
- The form of delivery is a two-tier architecture with a backend emitting fhir-compliant json and a frontend using d3.js to visualize and interact on the data.

## Sessions

- Lecture: 30min
- Hands-on: 90-150min
- Project Presentation/Feedback (in 4 Sessions): 60min

### Session 1 - Why Data Visualization and How?

#### Lecture
- Introductory Example using Python Matplotlib
- Review on Progress Board and Discussion

#### Project
- Project Ideation


### Session 2 - What: Data Abstraction

#### Hands-on
- Introductory Example using Matplotlib (Recreating Progressboard V 0.1)

#### Lecture
- Why Visualization Analysis and Design? (Slides 2-15)
- Framework for Visualization Analysis and Design (Slides 16-39)
- Data Types in Visualization and their implementation in Python (Slides 39-93)


### Session 3 - Why: Task Abstraction

#### Lecture

- Theory and Research Findings on Visualization
- Data Visualization in Healthcare
- What: Data Abstraction

- Slides (pp. 16-30): https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/talks/vad/VAD-2021.pdf

- Video 1: https://youtu.be/KXswx4QSkHc
- Video 2: https://youtu.be/Yq2IkdgWr9Q

#### Hands-on

- Project Setup with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript (D3.js)
- Can we get to this?! https://ourworldindata.org/health-meta#health-returns-to-healthcare-investment
- Joint ideation on visualization and technologies used


### Session 4 - Analysis: Four levels of validation

- Understanding the need and a framework for validation
- Application to own project
- Preliminary planning of iterations, definition of roadmap

#### Hands-on
- Producing interactivity in prototyping: https://kapernikov.com/ipywidgets-with-matplotlib/
- Setting up your Web App and transferring your data


### Session 5 - TEAM PRESENTATIONS


### Session 6 - Data and Task Abstraction

#### Lecture

Slides: https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/talks/vad/VAD-2021.pdf (pp. 39-121)

#### Project Tipps:

- Get clarity about Domain, Users, and their Problems
- Specify and Prioritize User Problems
- Build simple "social" prototypes to facilitate communication and avoid spending useless time implementing "something": https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/design-thinking-get-started-with-prototyping


### Session 7 - Marks and Channels

### Lecture

Slides:  https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~tmm/talks/vad/VAD-2021.pdf (pp. 122-177)
